now I know you're just itching to build
an array base list and we will soon but
before we do that just for the sake of
really good scholarship let's compare
and contrast arrays and classes so when
it comes to implementing a data
structure say a list or a set or a map
or any other number of things both
erasing classes can be used to organize
a bunch of memory boxes now they have
different flavors so for example the
planet class we have a bunch of named
fields and for example here I've
constructed a planet earth that has a
string mass or say a string name and a
double mass by contrast arrays as we've
noted are a set of numbered are a
sequence of numbered memory boxes now
for arrays they have to be all the same
type and if we want to access them we
use bracket notation and classes they
could be all different types and we
access them using dot notation in both
cases though we have the fixed number of
memory boxes that can never change at
least in the java language other
languages may be more permissive so
let's imagine what's really different
about that what philosophically is
really important here
well one really big difference is that
with arrays we can actually compute the
indices we want at runtime so imagine
the following we construct an integer
array like so and then we ask our user
what index do you want so we try running
this program which I'm not gonna do live
but it would say what index do you want
we compile and run this program and
maybe we type in two so now we have this
index of interest - that was not known
at compile time and then we can say hey
give me back item number two from this
array and when we print it out we'll get
102 by contrast with classes we cannot
compute those at runtime so for example
suppose we have a field of interest mass
and then we actually try to get back
that field of interest so in this case
rather than asking the user I'm just
having the string hard-coded in here
into this field and in this case what
happens when we try to earth field of
interest the class says no I'm not our
side the compiler says no you cannot say
earth field of interest that is
forbidden the reason is that's just how
Java works it just you cannot throw in
particular
field you want and get it back that's
just how the language yeah the language
is designed it will say array required
but instead a planet was found
now you might try and say I'm gonna be
extra clever what I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna use dot notation because I know
that's what's supposed to happen with
classes but in this case when I say
earth dot field of interest then I'll
get I don't know you mean I tried to
find something called field of interest
that's part of the planet class but if
you note I have mass I have name I do
not have a field of interest so in Java
you just can't do that now I'm kind of
lying because there is technically a way
of doing that and if you want you can
click this link and learn all about
something called the reflections API but
is not something that's considered good
style so ultimately in Java when you're
using a class the only easy way to
access a member of class is well what
I'll call with what I'll call hard-coded
dot notation so for example if I want to
get back mass I can only do it by saying
P mask I can't do P dot field of
interest or P bracelets field of
interest
won't work and so the Java compiler
ultimately the idea here is it doesn't
treat something on either side of a dot
as an expression it won't actually
evaluate this thing and thus it won't
work and if you're curious about these
kind of philosophical issues like if
you're kind of if you're the kind of
person who looks at this and says
there's something deep here and
something cool I encourage you to later
take a compilers or a programming
languages course which would really go
into the philosophy of these things in
more depth now it is possible I'll just
make a quick note though you can do
funny things if you really want and the
reason that Java doesn't let you do this
just to mention this philosophically is
that it keeps our code simple reflection
leads to ugly code strange code if Java
actually let you do this it would cause
a lot of headaches and so the Java
designer said no and they decided well
if you really want you can use the
reflections API but everybody knows I
know you now know that using reflection
for this kind of purpose it's just
considered terrible style and the reason
is simply that with big programs it's
just an extra thing you have to think
about so the language was built to
restrict the choices you could make
which again is one of the strongest
arguments in the favor of Java all right
that's it so end of these set of videos
next we'll start building an array Bay
list and I hope you like the philosophy